For my dependent variable (Y) I choose total cholesterol. total cholesterol is calculated by adding LDL (bad) cholesterol, HDL (good) cholesterol, and 20% of triglyceride levels. In general total cholesterol <200mg/dL is considered optimal/healthy. My main independent variable (x) is BMI (Body Mass Index). BMI is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters. The other control variables include age, gender, multiple races, smoking, exercise, and drinking. 
I started with getting the relevant data from the CDC website. The data was xpt files, which are not readable in R , so I had to install the heaven package in order to read it. Once I had them in my console it was time to merge them by their common sequence number. After the merger, it was time to organize the data, first by changing the original column names to names that are much easier to understand. The name changes are as follows, LBXTC– total cholesterol, RIAGENDER– gender, RIDAGEYR– age, RIDRETH3– race, SMQ040– smoke currently, PAQ650– recreational activity, ALQ121– drink frequency, BMXBMI– BMI. Later I had to create dummy variables for the categorical columns that I renamed, I used the cbind function to combine all of these variables into a new data frame called my project. Afterwards, needed to manipulate some of the variables in order to get some summary statistics about them. Gender for example was coded as 1 to indicate male and 2 to indicate female. I’ve created a dummy variable called male– if 1 is male otherwise 0-female. For smoking I had to do two dummy variables because in the codebook it was asked “do you now smoke cigarettes” ? 1 being everyday, 2 being some days, and 3 not at all. I choose “everyday” and “some days”, to be 1 if  true, and otherwise 0– no smoking at all. Similarly, when it came to the drinking variable, I considered “drink everyday” and “didn't drink”. This may seem counterintuitive to have both ,but I was curious to see the effect of the two extremes. For exercising, participants were asked: “In a typical week do you do any vigorous-intensity sports, fitness, or recreational activities that cause large increases in breathing or heart rate like running or basketball for at least 10 minutes continuously?  1 indicating yes, 2  indicating no. I created one variable called exercise 1=yes , 0=no.  When it came to race, it got rather tricky. The categorization scheme was 1-4, 6-7. 1= Mexican American, 2= other Hispanic, 3= Non- Hispanic White , 4= Non-Hispanic Black, 6= Non- Hispanic Asian, 7= Other Race- inc Multi-Racial. I picked out White, Black, Asian and Mexican American, 1=true otherwise 0 = Hispanic. The variables BMI, age and total cholesterol didn’t require any change because they were quantitative variables already.  Once my data was cleaned up, I got the summary statistics for each variable. Total cholesterol statistics are as follows: min(76), max(446), mean(186.9), median(183), variance(1700.86), standard deviation(41.24). A high variance indicates that the collected data has higher variability, and the data is generally further from the mean. Age is: min(18), max(80), mean(49.82), median(51), var(347.8), Sd(18.65). BMI is: min(14.2), max(86.2), mean(29.69), median(28.5), var(55.36), Sd(7.44). The rest of the variables were categorical/binary variables; only proportion would be appropriate for such variables. For the variable male, male accounts for 48.3% of the observations; the rest are females.  Based on the CDC questionnaire only 24.5% of the respondents exercise continuously for 10 minutes in a typical week. In the race category, the percentage of white responders was 34.3%, the percentage of black was 23.2%, asian was 14.3%, Mexican american was 13.6% and the remaining percentages accounted for other hispanic and multi-racial.   Drinking frequency was 19% for not drinking at all and 2.6% for drinking daily. Participants were asked what their current smoking frequency is. Results showed that 13.8% of responders smoke daily and 3.8%  smoke some days. The rest do not smoke at all.  
Once all of my data was organized and cleaned up, it was time to actually run the regression and analyze it. Using the lm() command in R, I got my OLS regression, now let's interpret it. To begin with, I found it incredibly surprising that the coefficient of BMI is negative (-0.08135) . I would have expected the coefficient to be positive, meaning that a higher BMI would be associated with higher total cholesterol, but that seems to not be the case here. On the contrary, in my model, a higher BMI is associated with a decrease of total cholesterol, which is unintuitive, to say the least doesn't make much sense. Coefficient of age is positive (0.02547)  , which makes sense, since I would expect total cholesterol to increase as one ages.  Male coefficient is negative (-12.12402) meaning being a male is associated with 12mg/dL lower than a female. In general, between the ages of 20 and 55 years, men tend to have higher LDL and lower HDL cholesterol levels than women. However, after the age of 55, women’s HDL cholesterol levels decrease rapidly, and LDL levels rise. This is due to menopause. Overall female do have higher total cholesterol after menopause(goforward). Coefficient on exercising is (-2.87153) intuitively that makes a lot of sense. Meaning exercising is associated with 2.9mg/dL decrease in total cholesterol. Coefficients for different races are all different.  For white (-4.05532), black (-5.73946), asian (0.94350), and mexican american (0.40600) and Hispanic serving as the reference group. Being black is associated with a decrease of 5.74mg/dL in total cholesterol. Similarly, white is associated with a decrease of 4.06mg/dL in total cholesterol. Asian is associated with a increase of .94mg/dL in total cholesterol and mexican american  is associated with a increase of .41mg/dL in total cholesterol. Drinking daily coefficient is (2.72904) can be interpreted as 2.73mg/dL increase if a person  drinks daily. Not drinking at all coefficient is (-8.31354 )  can be interpreted as 8.31mg/dL decrease if a person does not drink at all. Similarly, smoking daily coefficient is (0.29703) can be interpreted as .3mg/dL increase if a person smoke daily.  Coefficient for smoking some days is (1.63380)  can be interpreted as 1.63mg/dL increase if a person smokes some days. I would expect the coefficient for smoking some days to be smaller than the coefficient of smoking daily, but this model is not perfect. Now, I'm going to conduct an F test for joint significance of OLS coefficients. My second restrictive regression consists of only continuous variables (Total cholesterol, age, BMI) . I want to know the joint significance of all my categorical variables. The null hypothesis is that all my categorical variables jointly equal 0. The alternative is that they jointly do not equal 0. The F test resulted in a F value of 5.28, which is greater than the critical value of 2.32 at the 1% level, thus we reject the null in favor of the alternative and conclude that they are jointly significant. 
My regression of the OLS model is far from perfect. For starters my R-squared is 2.75% ,meaning that only 2.75% of the dependent variable is explained by the independent variables.  Also, linear regression can be affected by multicollinearity, which occurs when the input variables are highly correlated with each other. This can lead to unstable and unreliable results. 
